The usefulness of the STEM Galla devices does not stop here as an appendix, so to speak, to the previous
section, we will focus on an experiment, the so-called modified Stanzler experiment.
Also briefly shortly, S.G. Experiment, which digs deeper into what we call the quantum ontology.
This experimental setup was not conceived by Stern and Gowalla, but about 30 years later, in 1951
by David Boehme, it is powerful, the tactical tool that better highlights some quantum phenomena but
is unfortunately explained only rarely in physics undergraduate studies which go directly into the algebra
without establishing a deeper understanding of its meaning and where it comes from.
The basic building block of an MSgt.
Can be realized with an apparatus, as in this figure here, here one uses three magnets, the first
separates the particle beam, as usual, into its spin components, say here the x axis spin, where
the particle with X Kate plus spin will follow the upper path, while those those with X in minus spin
state will follow the lower one.
Then a second longer magnet with opposite polarity manages to reverse that the Asian path, finally,
the third magnet stops the trajectories from diverging and merges the two beams into one single output,
making them indistinguishable.
Now, let us repeat the same experiment as in the measurement deals of the previous section of the previous
lecture about the computational relations I depicted here, it here again in a corner for your convenience,
but this time with the MSG instead of the SGX.
That is the experimental situation we have in measurement e of this experimental set up.
The particle, the particles in the.
Said Kate Plus State are selected first and go through the Mawji, which deviates it up or down according
to its plus or minus spin state.
In fact, it physically performs internally the same measure as in the measurement D, but it hides
the result to an outside observer by reuniting the two beams at its output.
At this point, the question is, what will the last as that stage measure, that which repeats that
that spin measure?
We might be tempted to say that there is no reason to believe that a different result than in measurement
emerges as the MSG device performs an interaction free measurement along the X axis and should not change
anything along that axis.
Compared to measurement, I mean, because, of course, it changes something because the connotation
relations hold, but compared to the it should be the same.
Moreover, according to our classical logic and understanding of the world, what we know about what
happens internally to the MSG is irrelevant measurement.
It could be considered equivalent to measurement because we might believe that inserting the MSG simply
does nothing if it is perfect and ideal measurement device that does not disturb the system.
And we would expect, again, a 50/50 chance of getting that spin up or spin down along the Z axis.
Nature's answer, however, is that of measurement, it is not equivalent to measurement, the better
measurement be.
Which is, again, depicted in the lower right for your convenience.
Indeed, the particles all remain remain unaffected in the.
That Kate Plus I can state and remain as they are at the entrance of the whole device.
This is despite the fact that inside the SGX that is hidden from our side, a sort of measurement along
the x axis is done just as in measurement D with the only difference being that the information it is
supposed to hold is erased at the exit of the MSG.
Once this cascading of S.G. and MSJ devices is put in place, it does not alter the initial state that
Kate plus of the particle apparently in complete contradiction to what we got a measurement de.
So what does all this tell us?
There are different ways in which one can describe it using human language.
One way to explain the reality that emerges from this is to state that we perform a spin measurement
on a particle along its x axis and accordingly, accordingly make it travel along the upper or lower
path inside the MSG.
However, by merging the two particle paths into one, we erase the data which way information the particle
followed.
It is a sort of blind measurement in the sense that physically the measurement is performed, but one
does not look at the result and quickly erases the information.
Strictly speaking, it shouldn't even be called a measurement, because by definition, this word implies
a readout of information is separately that for a long time has not been taken seriously and has therefore
led to countless misinterpretation and endless confusion to the present day.
And we will see this again later.
In fact, this was one of the first examples of so-called quantum eraser devices, which we shall see
again later in its modern formats.
The MSgt experiment, therefore, seems to suggest that what really counts is the information we have
about the particles.
That is also why most physicists tend to believe that the wavefunction represents solely pure information
and not a physical entity in nature out there, so to speak.
This sounds quite mind boggling because like the wavefunction, the very concept of information is hard
to imagine as something being out there in the world, as something independent from our abstractions.
We think of information as numbers or mental categories.
But how can it be something concrete like particles, property, or the qualities of macroscopic object,
say a flower or a stone?
Yet in quantum physics, this seems to be the case.
The question is, is it really?
Another way to explain the same observed quantum phenomenon is more abstract, but it conforms more
to the truth.
The idea of a quantum particle following distinct paths here inside an MSG device is a common fallacy
of the human sense mind, which is accustomed to dividing the macroscopic world into distinct objects
and which infers its past whereabouts by means of the so-called reproductive reasoning.
In fact, we can say that that there is no which way information erasure because there is no distinct
particle following one or the other distinct path in the first place in the first place.
But only something which is in a superposition state of both possibilities and which is described by
all wavefunction or state vector that contains the two potentialities at the same time, and that evolves
evolves in time and space without collapse.
Only when we measure with a detector, it is in quantum mechanics.
This means operate with an operator, the observable on the wave function or state vector by somehow
interacting with and eventually absorbing the particle and obtaining a readout.
That is the eigenvalue.
Only, therefore, when this detector measurement takes place, then does a state projection occur.
It would, however, be incorrect to make any statement about the particles whereabouts before that
projective measurement, because there was no such thing as a particle travelling along the upper or
lower path inside the NSG before information Rasiah in the first place.
The information is not lost by merging the beams, but by detecting or simply blocking them and inducing
a projection to only one of the possible aying states.
We will take this up again later, because it is a subcommittee that will require more clarification
and insight to avoid a very common misunderstanding and one among even experienced experienced physicists.
Meanwhile, note how from this also emerged the fact that the measurement act in itself did not disturb
the system state and the determined and experiment's outcome.
This also is a popular misinterpretation due to Heisenberg's microscope analogy and what we have already
dismissed in the lecture on the Uncertainty Principle.
What ends up leaving that that's been determined or not is the kind of experimental arrangement that
allows for the knowledge about the spin state along the X axis or not.
In other words, quantum mechanics responds to us depending on the context.
One speaks of quantum context, reality, it is called quantum contextual, it is that is that strange
behavior of quantum objects whereby the measurement of a quantum observable depends on the specific
experimental set up, and the answer depends on what we are already allowed to know about it.
The result depends not only on the intrinsic physical properties of a quantum object or system, but
also on the context in which an experiment is done on it.
And we will see that much more about this with follow.